So I covered a lot of useful things about Angular here,
there's one last thing I want to cover before I send you off to the main content of this course and
that is how we can send HTTP requests.
Let's say we want to initialize our list here, not with some hardcoded values which we have in here
but we want to fetch that from a back-end API and that is a typical use case because no matter which
application you're building,
chances are high you need to store data on a server or fetch data from a server
and of course you can do that with Angular. I'll not show you how to store it here,
we'll do that throughout the course but I will show you how to get data. Now for that, let's first of all find
a public API we can use and for that, you can simply Google for Swapi which is the Star Wars API which
is free to use and which allows us to fetch Star Wars characters.
Now what we can do here for example is we can target https://swapi.co/api/people, send
a request and here's a preview,
this gives us an object which has a results key, which has a couple of Star Wars characters.
Now I'm only interested in the names but I can still use that and fetch all the data.
The question just is, how do we send HTTP requests here and then transform the result or
the response data to use it here?
Well first of all to send HTTP requests, we again need to unlock this in our Angular application and therefore
in the app module. For this, I import something in app module, the HttpClientModule to be precise
from @angular/commom/http.
Now this needs to be added to imports here,
let's add it after the other Angular modules
here and now this allows us to inject the Angular HttpClient anywhere in our application where
we need it and you can not just inject things or services into components,
you can also inject services into services. So here in the persons service, I can also add my constructor
and then I'll use this shortcut where I automatically store whatever I inject in a property, in a private
property here. I'll name this HTTP, the name is up to you
but the type is not, the type needs to be HttpClient which you need to import from @angular/common/http
and don't forget the empty curly braces here.
Now we can use this HttpClient and I want to use it to fetch my persons, the persons I start with.
Now for that, I'll actually add a new method here,
fetchPersons and there I will use HTTP and then there is a get method I can execute. Get can be
executed here and get works in a way that I pass in the URL I want to send a request to and this
will be a background request sent and handled behind the scenes without our page refreshing and the
URL I want to send it to is this URL of course, so https://swapi.co/api/
and then it's people. So let's send it to /people here, without one, just /people.
This will send a get request there, you can also send post requests and so on but we're not doing that here,
this now also is a generic type where we get back any data, that is kind of a placeholder if you don't
know the specific format or you are too lazy to type the format as I am here, well then you can
use any and this alone will not do anything. You need to subscribe here because this behind the scenes
also uses RxJS, it's a so-called observable and you need to subscribe to kick off that request
because Angular is not sending it if no one is listening to the response and here, you indeed get back
your response data and you can name this argument however you want and I will simply log it here. So whenever
we call fetchPersons, this should be sent and the response data should be output. Well we want to get
our persons in the persons component, so here in ngOnInit, I will actually not initialize a personal
list like this because it will soon be empty anyways, instead I will reach out to my prs service and
call fetchPersons and in there, I then go ahead and make that request. Now I will indeed empty my array
here and start with undefined even and I want to for now only console log my response data and I'll
make sure we get a working list soon. If we now go back to the app and we reload, we of course
see no list here anymore but we do see this log which is the response data we have and indeed we see
there, we have an object with the results key which is a list of Javascript objects which have all kinds
of data but amongst them also the name. Now we want to extract that,
so how can we now transform this and extract the data? Well observables give you a rich suite of so-called
operators you can use, more on that can be found in an article or in a resource you find attached to this
lecture. Before subscribing and getting the final result, you can pipe an unlimited amount of operators
to this observable which means you funnel the data you get back through all kinds of operators that
can do all kinds of things and one operator you often use is the map operator. You import this from
rxjs/operators, the s is important here and then you pass map here and you call it as a function.
Now map takes a function as an argument and that will receive the same data subscribe receives here
and now you can transform it and return your transformed data so that here, you get your transformed
data, and you don't need to rename it, I'm just doing it here to make it really clear how this executes.
So here I now return my transformed data and as we learned, there is a results property here in a response
data in which I'm interested and I want to extract that. And in the results data, to be precise
that is an array, I want to get that name.
Now since this is an array, I can use the normal map method and this can be confusing but this is not
this map method,
this is the normal Javascript map method which we can use on any array
and there, I get my character here, in the end you can name this however you want to and I want
to just extract the name.
So here, I will call character name and what this will do is it will throw away all the other elements,
so all the other fields and instead basically give me back an array of results here which only contain
objects with the name or not even objects to be precise but just a list of strings at the end,
this is how that works. And we can see this if I save that and therefore this page reloads, now we see
we get back a list of strings here which is of course super convenient for us to use.
Now this can be confusing and therefore definitely check out the attached resource if observables are
brand new to you.
However now we got a list of persons as we need it and therefore here, we can now simply emit persons
changed,
call next and pass our transformed data.
Now this of course will also mean that we can no longer add persons because whenever we reload the persons
component which does call fetchPersons, we overwrite the old persons or we emit our new persons which
are only the ones we fetched
but that is okay for now, I just want to show you how sending HTTP requests works.
So here, I am now emitting this and in persons component, I'm listening to this.
Now let's just reverse the order to make sure your subscription is set up before we send this which
will use the subscription eventually and let's save that and reload
and we see our list appear here after a short while when the request finished.
And now what I meant is if I add something here, Michael and I go back,
well then we first of all get an error because we can't push anymore because we actually have an undefined
persons array here
but even if I set this to an empty array to which we can push, well even if we do that, then this error
will be gone but if I go back to person list, it's instantly gone and overwritten and that is OK here,
I don't care about this app so much but about teaching the individual aspects of Angular and we'll build
a real app in the rest of this course of course.
Now you will also notice that deleting doesn't work correctly anymore
but again, doesn't matter too much here for me.
Now one last thing I want to show you before I conclude this is how we can show some placeholder
whilst we are waiting for the response here
because that allows me to also introduce another core directive Angular offers.